
All of the capital on your computer are unrealized capital gains until there is a tranaction. A trust company can cash out shares with out selling products.
a 1099-MISC is subject to self employment tax not any other 1099 a 1099-R is retirement or pension and how much you can contribute to the pension the 1st 10m 
of capital is tax free of your own stock or open stock. You can use COCOMO II to value the stock. You can contribute to your pension with your microsoft's startup's capital return and then cash out your startups shares. or Trust Co. And wealth managements custodians handndles 1099-R's

"Cash-Out Shares means any shares of Company Stock that are converted into the right to receive the Cash Merger Consideration pursuant to this Section 2.02. The Company (along with any other person or entity to which it may delegate or assign any responsibility or task with respect thereto) shall have full discretion and exclusive authority (subject to its right and power to so delegate or assign such authority) to (i) make such inquiries, whether of any shareholder(s) or otherwise, as it may deem appropriate for purposes of this Section 2.02 and (ii) resolve and determine, in its sole discretion, all ambiguities, questions of fact and interpretive and other matters relating to this Section 2.02, including, without limitation, any questions as to the number of shares of Company Stock held by any Holder immediately prior to the Effective Time. All determinations by the Company under this Section 2.02 shall be final and binding on all parties, and no person or entity shall have any recourse against the Company or any other person or entity with respect thereto. For purposes of this Section 2.02, the Company may in its sole discretion, but shall not have any obligation to do so, (i) presume that any shares of Company Stock held in a discrete account (whether record or beneficial) are held by a person distinct from any other person, notwithstanding that the registered or beneficial holder of a separate discrete account has the same or a similar name as the holder of a separate discrete account; and (ii) aggregate the shares of Company Stock held (whether of record or beneficially) by any person or persons that the Company determines to constitute a single Holder for purposes of determining the number of shares of Company Stock held by such Holder."